Web services are a standard way for computers to exchange information
over the internet and are used by many different companies and
organizations for business and other purposes.
To prepare you with some background knowledge for
the examples in the next clips,
in this clip I'll give you a quick overview of web services in general and
how you can work with web services in Java specifically.
Let's first look at the basic concepts of web services.
When you use your browser to surf the web,
then your browser uses HTTP to send a request to a web server which responds
by sending a web page in HTML format back to your browser.
Web services work in a similar way, but instead of HTML,
a different format is used named SOAP, which is based on XML.
Officially, SOAP isn't an acronym anymore,
but originally it meant Simple Object Access Protocol,
and sometimes people use the alternative meaning,
Service-Oriented Architecture Protocol.
When computers communicate using XML-based web services,
they send each other SOAP messages over HTTP connections.
SOAP is a format and protocol which defines the
structure for the messages to be exchanged,
but it doesn't by itself define what the content of a message means.
The meaning of the content of a message is specific to
the business domain of the web service.
A web service can offer a number of business-specific operations.
For example,
a purchase order web service might define an operation to create a
purchase order or to get information about an existing order.
There is a standard XML-based format to describe what
business operations a web service has, which is WSDL,
pronounced as WSDL, which means Web Services Description Language.
This plays an important role in working with XML-based web services in Java,
as you'll see in the examples in the next clips in this module.
Java has a standard API for working with XML-based web services called JAX-WS,
which stands for Java API for XML Web Services.
JAX-WS provides APIs for writing the server side,
as well as the client side of a web service.
It uses JAXB to marshal and unmarshal Java domain model objects to and from
the XML that is used in the body of the SOAP messages.
In the next clips,
we are going to take our purchaseOrder domain model and use JAX-WS and
JAXB to create a simple purchase order web service.
First,
we are going to create the server side and then the client for the web
service using the WSDL that the web service provides. Let's go ahead and build a web service.